# API Integration  
## How do bearer tokens work?  
- The Authentication server generates the Bearer Token for you. When a user logs in to your application (client), the authentication server creates a token for you.

- The Bearer Token is often an obfuscated value generated by the authentication server. It isn't generated at random; it is determined by the user who grants you access and the client to whom your application is granted access.
Bearer Token A security token with the property that any party in possession of the token (a "bearer") can use the token in any way that any other party in possession of it can. Using a bearer token does not require a bearer to prove possession of cryptographic key material (proof-of-possession).

-To get an access token, submit this bearer token along with your client id to the Authentication server. The server will know that the application utilizing the bearer token is the same as the one for which the bearer token was generated.
## Describe express middleware  
Express middleware are functions that execute during the lifecycle of a request to the Express server. Each middleware has access to the HTTP request and response for each route (or path) it's attached to. In fact, Express itself is compromised wholly of middleware functions.  
## whats a json web token  
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that specifies a compact and self-contained method for securely sending information as a JSON object between two parties. Because it is digitally signed, this information can be checked and trusted.
## Document the following Vocabulary Terms  

role based access control:
Function-based access control (RBAC) is a type of advanced access control that restricts network access based on a person's role within an organization. The degrees of access that employees have to the network are referred to as roles in RBAC.
cookies from http:
HTTP cookies (also known as web cookies, Internet cookies, browser cookies, or just cookies) are tiny data blocks produced by a web server and stored on a user's computer or other device by the user's web browser when the user is viewing a website. Cookies are stored on the device used to visit a website, and a user's device may get many cookies throughout a session.


How do bearer tokens work?
Token of the Bearer A security token with the characteristic that anyone in possession of it (a "bearer") can use it in any way that anyone else in possession of it can. The use of a bearer token does not necessitate the bearer proving ownership of cryptographic key material.

Describe express middleware?
Express middleware are functions that execute during the lifecycle of a request to the Express server. Each middleware has access to the HTTP request and response for each route (or path) it’s attached to. In fact, Express