# Trees
- In this tutorial, we'll be covering Binary Trees, Binary Search Trees, and K-ary Trees. We will review some common terminology that is shared amongst all of the trees and then dive into specifics of the different types. In a binary tree, k = 2. The height of a tree is the number of edges from the root to the furthest leaf. A leaf is a node that does not have any children.
- There are two categories of traversals when it comes to trees. Depth first traversal is where we prioritize going through the depth (height) of the tree first. Each method changes the order in which we search/print the root. There are multiple ways to carry out depth first traverse, including pre-order, in-order and post-order.
- The most common way to traverse through a tree is to use recursion. With these traversals, we rely on the call stack to navigate back up the tree when we have reached the end of a sub-path. Let's break down the pre-order traversal and see how it would work in practice.
- When you call pre-order, the root of the call stack has to be looked at first. When we call preOrder for the first time, this means that the root will be added to the top of the stack. The root is then called again when we call it a second time and add it to the list of values in the stack
- we make a function call where B is our new root. This means that we will output the root.value out to the console and then check if our root has a left node set. If the root does, we will send the left node to our preOrder method recursively. We then make another function call, where A is the new root and B is the original root.
- Three different ways of traversing a tree can be used to find the root node. Breadth first traverses the tree by going through each level of the tree node-by-node. The Breadth First traversal iterates through the tree and the Breadth Second and Third traversals repeat the same steps. This is when you are looking at the root nodes in the tree.
- If Nodes are able have more than 2 child nodes, we call the tree that contains them a K-ary Tree. In this type of tree we use K to refer to the maximum number of children that each Node is able to have. We are still pushing nodes into a queue, but we are now moving down a list of children of length k, instead of checking for the presence of a left and a right child.
- A Binary Search Tree (BST) is a type of tree that does have some structure attached to it. In a BST, nodes are organized in a manner where all values that are smaller than the root are placed to the left, and those that are larger than the base are put to the right. The worst case for most operations will involve traversing the entire tree.
