# What Google Learned About Teams


* * Rozovsky was in a study group at Yale and joined other groups for voluntary competitions. She was on a team that came up with a plan for a new business to replace a student-run snack store. Despite their disparate backgrounds, however, everyone clicked. Rozovsky's study group dissolved in her second semester, but her case team stuck together for the two years she was at Yale. The team's members got along better as a group than as individual friends, Rozovsky says. I couldn't figure out why things had turned out so



* * Psychologists, sociologists and statisticians are devoting themselves to studying team composition and email patterns.We're living through a golden age of understanding personal productivity," says Marshall Van Alstyne, a professor at Boston University.As commerce becomes increasingly global and complex, the bulk of modern work is more and more team-based. Studies show that people working in teams tend to achieve better results and report higher job satisfaction. Google has spent untold millions of dollars measuring nearly every aspect of its employees' lives. If a company wants to outstrip its competitors, it needs to influence not only how people work but also how they work together, writes Zain Verjee Rozovsky. She was hired by Google and was soon assigned to Project Aristotle, the tech giant's initiative to study workers' habits and tendencies. She says the project found that good communication and avoiding micromanaging is critical.


* * Aristotle's researchers looked at studies looking at how teams worked at Google. They looked at 180 teams from all over the company. There was nothing showing that a mix of specific personality types or skills made any difference. Two teams might have nearly identical makeups, with overlapping memberships, but radically different levels of effectiveness. The 'who' part of the equation didn't seem to matter, the researchers said. The researchers looked for patterns, not patterns, in the composition of a team.


* * Researchers looked at over a hundred groups for more than a year to find the norms that made up successful teams. Some teams celebrated birthdays with informal chitchat; others discouraged gossip. Researchers concluded that understanding and influencing group norms were the keys to improving teams. But the data didn't offer clear verdicts, and the data sometimes pointed in opposite directions.


* * Psychologists want to know if there is a collective I.Q. that emerges within a team that is distinct from the smarts of any single member. In 2008, psychologists from Carnegie Mellon, M.I.T. and Union College began to try to answer the question. To accomplish the goal, they divided people into small groups and gave each a series of assignments. One assignment involved brainstorming possible uses for a brick. Another had the groups plan a shopping trip and give each teammate a different list of groceries. 
* *  Researchers studied the groups, however, they noticed two behaviors that all the good teams generally shared. People on the more successful teams in Woolley's experiment scored above average on the Reading the Mind in the Eyes test. As long as everyone got a chance to talk, the team did well, researchers say. But if only one person or a small group spoke all the time, the collective intelligence declined, they say. The right norms, in other words, could raise a group's collective intelligence.

* * Team A may be filled with smart people, but its norms discourage equal speaking. On Team B, people may speak over one another, go on tangents and socialize. All the team members speak as much as they need to. They are sensitive to one another's moods and share personal stories and emotions. While Team B might not contain as many individual stars, the sum will be greater than the parts, researchers say.  Research on psychological safety at Google pointed to particular norms that are vital to success. establishing psychological safety is, by its very nature, somewhat messy and difficult to implement. The kinds of people who work at Google are often the ones who became software engineers because they wanted to avoid talking about feelings in the first place. Google hadn't yet figured out how to make psychological safety easy, but they hoped that publicizing their research within Google would prompt employees to come up with their own ideas of their own. After Rozovsky gave one


* * akaguchi is talented at managing technical workers, and as a result, he has thrived at Google. Sakaguchi recently became manager of a new team, and he wanted to make sure things went better. He asked his team to complete a survey to gauge the group's norms. The results showed many members of the team were unhappy with how their work was perceived. He began by asking everyone to share something personal about themselves. He told the group that he has Stage 4 cancer of the kidney, which he had been treated for for nearly a decade.  

* * No one knew what to say. The team had been working with Sakaguchi for 10 months. They all liked him, just as they all liked one another. They found it easier to speak honestly about the things that had been bothering them, their small frictions and everyday annoyances. They agreed to adopt some new norms: From now on, Sakag Japan would make an extra effort to let the team members know how their work fit into Google's larger mission.

* * Google's Project Aristotle has encouraged emotional conversations and discussions of norms among people who might otherwise be uncomfortable talking about how they feel. Sakaguchi knows that the spread of his cancer means he may not have much time left. Helping his team succeed ''is the most meaningful work I've ever done," he says. Project Aristotle ''proves how much a great team matters,'' he said. The technology industry is increasingly the world's dominant commercial culture, David Wheeler says. It's not only Google that loves numbers, he says; most work­places do.

* * In its race to build the perfect team, Google has perhaps unintentionally demonstrated the usefulness of imperfection. Rozovsky: ''Just having data that proves to people that these things are worth paying attention to sometimes is the most important step in getting them to actually pay attention. Project Aristotle is a reminder that when companies try to optimize everything, it's sometimes easy to forget that success is often built on experiences that can't really be optimized. It has given us the tools to quickly teach lessons that once took managers decades to absorb.