# CSS Transforms, Transitions, and Animations
* * Business school study groups have become a rite of passage at M.B.A. programs. They are a way for students to practice working in teams and a reflection of the increasing demand for employees who can adroitly navigate group dynamics. To prepare students, business schools have revised their curriculums to emphasize team-focused learning. Julia Rozovsky's study group was a source of stress; she felt like she had to prove herself to her teammates. 'I always felt like I had to be careful not to make mistakes around them,' she said of her colleagues.
* * Rozovsky was in a study group at Yale that was fun and outgoing, but she wanted more. She joined a team that was taking part in competitions to come up with business ideas. The team's members got along better as a group than as individual friends, she says. Rozovsky's study group dissolved in her second semester, but her case team stuck together for the two years she was at Yale. The case team won a competition when they came up with a plan for a new business to replace a campus snack store.After Genetic Testing, I Took a Chance on an 'Imperfect' Pregnancy. Today, on corporate campuses and within university laboratories, psychologists, sociologists and statisticians are devoting themselves to studying everything from team composition to email patterns. Our data-saturated age enables us to examine our work habits and office quirks.
* * As commerce becomes increasingly global and complex, the bulk of modern work is more team-based. Google is one of the most public proselytizers of how studying workers can transform productivity. In the last decade, the tech giant has spent untold millions of dollars measuring nearly every aspect of its employees' lives. In 2012, the company embarked on an initiative — code-named Project Aristotle — to study hundreds of Google's teams. The project gathered some of the company's best statisticians, organizational psychologists, sociologists and engineers. It found that the best managers share traits such as good communication and avoiding micromanaging.
Researchers looked at studies looking at how teams worked at Google to find patterns in the company's composition. No matter how researchers arranged the data, it was almost impossible to find any evidence that the composition of a team made any difference. Two teams might have nearly identical makeups, with overlapping memberships, but radically different levels of effectiveness. Some groups that were ranked among Google's most effective teams were composed of friends who socialized outside work, researchers say. The researchers looked at 180 teams from all over the company. Researchers looked for instances when team members described a particular behavior as an ''unwritten rule'' Some teams celebrated birthdays and began each meeting with informal chitchat. Other groups got right to business and discouraged gossip.
* * Researchers looked at over a hundred groups for more than a year to see which norms mattered most. The data didn't offer clear verdicts, they found. Sometimes the norms of one effective team contrasted sharply with another equally successful group. The only thing worse than not finding a pattern is finding too many of them, they say.
Researchers wanted to know if there is a collective I.Q. that emerges within a team that is distinct from the smarts of any single member. They recruited 699 people, divided them into small groups and gave each a series of assignments. The right norms, they found, could raise a group's collective intelligence. But the wrong norms could hobble a team, even if all the members were exceptionally bright.
Researchers studied the groups in an experiment to see how well-behaved teams shared the social burden of leadership. Good teams had high ''average social sensitivity'' People on the more successful teams scored above average on the Reading the Mind in the Eyes test. Some teams seemed to know when someone was feeling upset or left out, in contrast to people on the ineffective teams, researchers say. The study's lead author says some groups had pretty average members, but they came up with ways to take advantage of everyone's relative strengths.  
* * Team B may seem inefficient to a casual observer, but all the team members speak as much as they need to. They are sensitive to one another's moods and share personal stories and emotions. One engineer told researchers that his team leader was ''direct and straightforward, which creates a safe space for you to take risks''

* * Google's data indicated that psychological safety is critical to making a team work. But establishing psychological safety can be messy and difficult to implement. The kinds of people who work at Google often became software engineers because they wanted to avoid talking about feelings in the first place.


* * Sakaguchi is talented at managing technical workers, and as a result, he has thrived at Google. Sakaguchi: 'Most days, I feel like I've won the lottery' Sakaguchi wanted to make sure his new team jelled, so he asked researchers at Project Aristotle for help.
Sakaguchi wanted his Google team to feel fulfilled by their work. He asked them to complete a survey. The results showed some members of the team were unhappy. Sakaguchi asked the team to share personal stories. He revealed that he has Stage 4 cancer.
After Sakaguchi spoke, another teammate described some health issues of her own. The team found it easier to speak honestly about the things that had been bothering them. The behaviors that create psychological safety are part of the same unwritten rules we often turn to.
Google's Project Aristotle has encouraged emotional conversations and discussions of norms among people who might otherwise be uncomfortable talking about how they feel. Sakaguchi knows that the spread of his cancer means he may not have much time left. Helping his team succeed ''is the most meaningful work I've ever done," he says.
Google's Project Aristotle is a way for employees to talk about their insecurities with each other. The company's data-driven approach to employee performance is a useful tool for managers, writer says. It's a reminder that success is often built on experiences that can't really be optimized.

* * Rozovsky wanted her teammate to be sensitive to what she was feeling. The data helped her feel safe enough to do what she thought was right. RozovskyWith CSS3 came new ways to position and alter elements. In this lesson we'll take a look at both two-dimensional and three-dimensional transforms. Support for the transform property in Chrome is getting better every day.The transform property includes multiple vendor prefixes to gain the best support across all browsers. The rotate value provides the ability to rotate an element from 0 to 360 degrees. We'll start by discussing how to transform elements on a two-dimensional plane, and then work our way into three-dimensional transforms
* * It is possible to scale only the height or width of an element using the scaleX and scaleY values. To scale both the height and width
Skew is used to distort elements on the horizontal axis, vertical axis, or both. Distance calculation of the skew value is measured in units of degrees.
* * Using the translate value works a bit like that of relative positioning, pushing and pulling an element in different directions. The translate value may be any general length measurement, most commonly pixels or percentages.
Multiple transforms can be combined together. List the transform values within the transform property one after the other without the use of commas. Multiple transform declarations will not work
* * The default transform origin is the dead center of an element. To change this default origin position the transform-origin property may be used. It can accept one or two values. More specific values can also be set.
* * In order for three-dimensional transforms to work the elements need a perspective from which to transform. The perspective of an element can be set in two different ways. One way includes using the perspective value within the transform property on individual elements.
* * Perspective value can be set as none or a length measurement. At 10 feet, your distance to the cube is the same as the dimensions of the cube, therefore the perspective shift is much greater than it will be at 1,000 feet.Set a transform-origin and perspective-origin property. The origin of a transform determines the coordinates used to calculate a change. The perspective
* * Three-dimensional transforms allow us to rotate an element around any axes. We use three new transform values, including rotateX, rotateY, and rotateZ. Negative values rotate the element clockwise, while negative values rotate it counterclockwise.Using scaleZ three-dimensional transform elements may be scaled on the z axis. In the demonstration below the elements are being scaled up and down on
* * Three-dimensional transforms can be used to translate elements on the z axis. A negative value on the translateZ value pushes an element further away and a positive value pushes it closer to it.
* * Shorthand transforms for three-dimensional transforms. Skew is the one two-dimensional transform that cannot be transformed on a three- dimensional scale. Nested transforms can only be applied on elements that are not in their own three- dimension.By default elements are shown from the back. Set the backface-visibility property to hidden, and you will hide the element whenever it is facing away from the screen.
## Transitions & Animations
* * Developers have been asking for the ability to design these interactions within HTML and CSS, without the use of JavaScript or Flash, for years. Transitions provide a change from one state to another, while animations can set multiple points of transition upon different keyframes.
* * The code above is not vendor prefixed. For the best support across all browsers,
The transition-property property determines exactly what properties will be altered by changing an element's state. Only the properties identified within this property will be affected by transitions.
* * Not all properties may be transitioned, only properties that have an identifiable halfway point. Colors, font sizes, and the alike may
The duration in which a transition takes place is set using the transition-duration property. The value of this property can be set using general timing values, including seconds (s) and milliseconds Knowing the duration from the transition-duration property a transition can have multiple speeds within a single duration. The transition-timing-function property is used to set the speed in which a transition will move. Each timing function has a cubic-bezier curve behind it, which can be specifically set using the cubic- bezier(x1, y1, x2, y2) value.
* * Shorthand Transitions can be used to declare properties and values. To set numerous transitions at once, set each individual group of transition values.
* * Animations are perfect for single state changes, but when multiple states are required, animations are needed. To set multiple points at which an element should undergo a transition,
* * Values for the animation-direction property include normal, reverse, alternate, and alternate-reverse. The normal value plays an animation as intended from beginning to end. The reverse value will play the animation exactly opposite as identified within the @keyframes rule, thus starting at 100% and working backwards to 0%.
* * The animation-fill-mode property identifies how an element should be styled. It can be used before, after, or before and after an animation is run. It accepts four keyword values, including none, forwards, backwards, and both.
### 8 SIMPLE CSS3 TRANSITIONS THAT WILL WOW YOUR USERS
* * just a couple of lines of code will give you an awesome transition effect that will excite your users. These effects are hardware accelerated, and a progressive enhancement that you can use right now.Fade in effects are coded in two steps: first, you set the initial state; next, you set the change, for example on hover:

* * To grow an element, you used to have to use its width and height, or its padding.But now we can use CSS3's transform to enlarge.Set your div's class to "grow" and then add this code to your style block:The effect is achieved by adding a box shadow, and then moving the element on the x axis using the transform and translate properties. We can also create highly complex animations using @keyframes, animation and animation-iteration.Inset border is a simple way to add a border to an element. It is a far simpler solution to the ghost button border problem.