# Images 
* * You can control the size of an image using the width and height properties in CSS. Specifying image sizes helps pages to load smoothly. HTML and CSS code will often load before the  images, and telling the browser how much space to leave for an  image allows it to render the rest of the page.
* * You need to determine the sizes of images that will be used  commonly throughout the site. Then give each size a name. In the CSS, you add selectors for  each of the class names.
* * Web  page authors are increasingly using the float property to align images. New classes are created with names such as align-left or align-right to align the images to the left or right of the page. The float property is used in two ways to indicate the size of the image.
* * By default, images are inline elements, which flow within the surrounding text. To center an image, it should be turned into a block-level element using the display property with a value of block. There are two common ways in which you  can horizontally center an images.
* * The background-repeat property can have four values: repeat-x, repeat-y, no-repeat, fixed and repeated vertically. The background-attachment property specifies whether a background image should stay in one position or move as the user scrolls up and down.
* * The background property acts like a shorthand for all of the  other background properties. The properties must be specified in the following order, but you can miss any value if you do not  specify it. The first image is shown on top, with the last one on the bottom.
* * Using CSS it is possible to create a link or button that changes to a second style when a user moves  their mouse over it. This is achieved by setting a background image for the link or  button that has three different styles of the button. The advantage of using sprites is that the web browser only needs to request one image rather than many.
* * You can specify the dimensions of images using CSS. Images can be aligned both horizontally and vertically. You can use a background image behind the box  created by any element on a page.
## Practical Information
* * SEO is the practice of trying to make your site appear nearer the top of search engine results. At the heart of SEO is the idea of working out which terms people are likely to enter into a search engine to find your site. Search engines rely very heavily on the text that is in your pages so it is important that the terms aciously people are going to search for are in text. Getting other sites to link to your site is just as important as on-page techniques.  Search engines also look at the words between the opening and closing of the link. If the text in the link  contains keywords it may be considered more relevant.
* * List down the words that someone might type into Google to find your site. Organize the keywords into separate lists for different sections or categories. There are several tools that let you enter your keywords and then they will suggest additional  keywords you might like to consider. For example: adwords.co.uk/Keyword.Tool.Tool external. external.Keyword: "exact match"
* * It is very unlikely that your site will appear at the top of  the search results for every  keyword. Pick 3-5 keywords or phrases that map to each page of your website. Pick the ones that are most relevant to each  section of your site. The more sites that have already been optimized for a given keyword, the harder it will be for you to rise up the list of results for that term. Use Google's advanced search feature to find out how many people have searched for a  specific keyword.
You should not need to repeat  the same keywords on all of  the pages. As you move further away from the homepage into the sections,
* * Your domain name is your web  address (e.g. google.com or bbc.co.uk) There are many websites that allow you to register domain names. Usually you will have to pay an annual fee to keep the domain name. Check whether the hosting  company performs backups on your site and how often Most websites live on web servers run by web hosting companies. This is usually far cheaper and more reliable than trying to run your own web  servers.
* * Search engine optimization helps visitors find your  sites when using search engines. Analytics tools such as Google Analytics allow you to see how many people visit your site. Many companies provide platforms for blogging, email  newsletters and e-commerce.


* *  HTML5 comes with elements for embedding rich media in documents such as video and audio. These elements come with their own APIs for controlling playback, seeking, etc. This article shows you how to do common tasks such as creating custom playback controls.
* * The whole player is wrapped in a div element, so it can all be styled as one unit if needed. The controls HTML is probably the most interesting: We have fourbuttons — play/pause, stop, rewind, and fast forward. There is also a timer div, which will report the elapsed time when the video is playing.
* * In this example we use a custom web font to display icons on our buttons. Icon fonts are very cool for many reasons, including their scalability and text-based style. We also use generated content to display an icon on each button.
* * We set the outer .timer div to have flex: 5, so it takes up most of the width of the controls bar. We also give it position: relative, so that we can position elements inside it according to it's boundaries. The inner div is absolutely positioned to sit directly on top of the outer div. It is also given an initial width of 0, so you can't see it at all. As the video plays, the width will be increased via JavaScript.
